# Simple-OCR
This project takes hand drawn letters from the images provided a.bmp etc and gets the features of the letters in the images so it will be able to recognize them once you give the program real data to look at.  This project was writen using libraries from Anaconda. 

 The first file is ImagingAI.py this file is what I made when I first started the project before the instructions stated to make all the code therein a function.  This file still proved useful as I was able to use it for testing to see if I could get the number of connected components down.  To use it simply change the string on line 12 of the to be the name or path to the image you want to find the features of and then run it and it will print all the relevant information and plots for the image you gave it.  Next is the train.py file this file is host to all the function that are used in the other files the first of which being findfeatures_training starting on line 22.  This function takes in the name or path to a training image and a Boolean True if you want to see all the plots False if you do not and it returns the features found in the image.  The next function starting on line 81 is column.  This function takes in a 2D list and the index of the column you want to extract and returns the desired column as a 1D python list.  Starting on line 85 we have dotraining.  This function calls findfeatures_training for all the given training images and returns the normalized features if you want to see the output for all the calls just change the second parameter in the findfeatures_training call to True.  Next up is doTrainingWithConfusion starting on line 99.  This function calls dotraining and then uses the results to compute the confusion matrix and then shows the results.  Next starting on line 119 we have find_ground_truth.  This function takes in a proposed region t and returns the class (letter) that corresponds to the given proposed region t.  Below it is a version of the function that should be better however I was unable to make it work.  Lastly we have findfeatures_testing starting on line 135.  This function is similar to findfeatures_training on in this case it is used on the testing image and is not used for training.  The two notable differences are that this function makes calls to find_ground_truth and returns the features it found along with the results of the calls to find_ground_truth. The next file is test.py. This file takes test1.bmp and gets the distance matrix between it and the training data.  The next file is trainTest.py.  In this file all that happens is a call to  doTrainingWithConfusion so if you want to see the confusion matrix just run this file.  The last file is RunMyOCRRecogiton.py.  This file will ask for a file name or a path to the image you want to test and then at the end will give you the recognition results.
